rfcs: add proposal on introducing API for specifying data type of scale and shift tensors (#1754)
oneapi-src/oneDNN: rfcs/20231107-norm-scale-shift-data-type/README.md

# Introducing API for Specifying Data Type of Scale and Shift Tensors

## Motivation

> Some frameworks may require scale and shift tensors to have the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some frameworks define their API for normalization operations in a way so scale and shift tensors must have the same
```

/// @param engine Engine to use.
/// @param prop_kind Propagation kind. Possible values are
///     #dnnl_forward_training and #dnnl_forward_inference.
/// @param src_desc Source memory descriptor.
/// @param dst_desc Destination memory descriptor.
/// @param stat_desc Memory descriptor for mean and variance. If this
///     parameter is NULL, a zero memory descriptor, or a memory descriptor
///     with format_kind set to #dnnl_format_kind_undef, then the memory
///     descriptor for stats is derived from @p src_desc by removing the last
///     dimension.
/// @param ss_data_type Data type of scale and shift memory.
/// @param epsilon Layer normalization epsilon parameter.
/// @param flags Layer normalization flags (@ref dnnl_normalization_flags_t).
/// @param attr Primitive attributes (can be NULL).
/// @returns #dnnl_success on success and a status describing the error
///     otherwise.
dnnl_status_t dnnl_layer_normalization_forward_primitive_desc_create_v2(
        dnnl_primitive_desc_t *primitive_desc, dnnl_engine_t engine,
        dnnl_prop_kind_t prop_kind, const_dnnl_memory_desc_t src_desc,
        const_dnnl_memory_desc_t dst_desc, const_dnnl_memory_desc_t stat_desc,

>         dnnl_data_type_t ss_data_type, float epsilon, unsigned flags,

Author: Makes sense, adjusted it.

/// @param src_desc Source memory descriptor.
/// @param stat_desc Memory descriptor for mean and variance. If this
///     parameter is NULL, a zero memory descriptor, or a memory descriptor
///     with format_kind set to #dnnl_format_kind_undef, then the memory
///     descriptor for stats is derived from @p src_desc by removing the last
///     dimension.
/// @param ss_data_type Data type of scale and shift memory.
/// @param epsilon Layer normalization epsilon parameter.
/// @param flags Layer normalization flags (@ref dnnl_normalization_flags_t).
/// @param hint_fwd_pd Primitive descriptor for a respective forward propagation
///     primitive.
/// @param attr Primitive attributes (can be NULL).
/// @returns #dnnl_success on success and a status describing the error
///     otherwise.
dnnl_status_t dnnl_layer_normalization_backward_primitive_desc_create_v2(
        dnnl_primitive_desc_t *primitive_desc, dnnl_engine_t engine,
        dnnl_prop_kind_t prop_kind, const_dnnl_memory_desc_t diff_src_desc,
        const_dnnl_memory_desc_t diff_dst_desc,
        const_dnnl_memory_desc_t src_desc, const_dnnl_memory_desc_t stat_desc,

>         dnnl_data_type_t ss_data_type, float epsilon, unsigned flags,

Reviewer 2: Do we need a separate data type for diff scale and shift? Both of them are accumulated so it might be needed to compute fp16->fp32. Could you please check with the frameworks?

Reviewer: These data types should coincide with what was passed on forward. If we don't give an opportunity for forward, there's no place for such opportunity on backward.

Author: Discussed offline. As of now, we don't have any evidence that such a use case exists. But from the API perspective it makes sense to add the data type for diff scale and shift tensors to future proof the API. For now, the normalization implementations can only support the case when the data types for scale and shift and diff scale and diff shift tensors are the same.
